Hello and welcome back.
In this lesson, I will show you how to use Claude code to add a fallback model.
A fallback model is the model that OpenClaw will automatically use when the primary model
becomes rate-limited or unavailable.
Head over to the OpenRouter list of free models.
Remember that we can list the free models by typing in free in the search box.
In the previous lesson, we have already set NVIDIA's Nemotron as the primary model.
Nemotron is a 120 billion parameter model with 1 million context.
DeepSeek V4 Flash is a 284 billion parameter model with 1.05 million context.
Both are good.
Let's use DeepSeek V4 Flash free as the fallback model.
First, we copy the official name and paste it into Notepad.
Then we list the existing models using the command openclaw models list.
We can see that the default model is Nemotron.
We also have DeepSeek V4 Pro which is a paid model.
And we also have GPT 5.4 which is also a paid model.
Note that although we already have these other models, they are not automatically set as
fallback models.
Now we want to add deepseek 4 flash free from open router as the fallback.
Let's run claude desktop.
If you don't have a claude subscription, then use codex, it will also work just fine.
Just follow along in this lesson using codex.
But for this lesson, I will use claude code.
Search for claude and pin it to the taskbar, so that in future, it is easier for us to
find it.
Make sure you are on the Code tab, since we want to use Claude Code.
Just ignore this warning, it is from one of my previously set up MCP server from a different
course.
Let's get the path to where OpenClaw is installed.
We want to give this path to Claude Code.
It is normally a hidden folder because it has a dot in front of the name OpenClaw.
Then type in the prompt.
You can download this prompt from the resource section for this lesson.
However, note that you need to change the paths to match your machine.
The prompt should contain all the relevant information needed to add DeepSeek V4 Flash
as a fallback model.
Also, be sure to tell Claude Code not to remove any existing models.
Also inform it where the previously saved API keys are found and that you have already
set the OpenRouter API keys and you want to use that.
If you do not know the path to the file, it is okay, just ask Claude Code to look for the
authprofiles.json file.
I will show you where the authprofiles.json file is found.
You should also tell Claude Code that you want the ability to switch to the fallback model
and set it as the default model at any time in future.
Click Send and let Claude Code work its magic.
Whenever it asks you for permission, just click Always Allow.
After a while, it reports back saying that it has made the changes.
Let's read what it says.
The important part says when Nemotron fails or rate limits, OpenClaw will hand off to
DeepSeek V4 Flash automatically.
Now we open a command prompt to restart the OpenClaw gateway.
After restarting, we open Telegram.
I have cleared the chat history and typed in slash new to get a new session.
Meanwhile, we open the command prompt and list the models.
Back in telegram, I had asked it what model are you on and it replies that it is on nemotron
free.
I then asked it what is its fallback model and it says that the fallback is deepseek
v4 flash free.
So it works.
Also the models listing also confirms that deepseek v4 flash free is the fallback model.
Note that you could also have done the same thing using codex.
The next thing to do is to take a snapshot of this virtual machine.
First, we will shut down this virtual machine.
In VirtualBox Manager, click on button Take to take a snapshot.
Give it a suitable name.
For example, Backup set to DeepSeek V4 Flash Free.
You can also delete any previous snapshots in order to recover some disk storage space.
So this is how you can use Claude Code or Codex to set up a fallback model.
Remember you could also use them to configure anything else or to troubleshoot and fix any
issues.
That's all for this video.
Thanks for watching.